This is what we're
going to explore today.
I'd like to give you some
context for this language
because I feel it's important for
understanding the design decisions,
the trade-offs we made, and in fact,
the roots of both of these languages.
If you look at when C++
and Objective-C were born,
they were both born in the mid-80s,
roughly speaking,
and C++ drew inspiration from
Simula and Objective-C drew
inspiration from Smalltalk.
And some of the terminology
features and mindsets and,
in fact,
culture that surround these languages
I hope to expose to give you some sense
for why one language works one way,
why another language solves
a different set of problems,
and why the combination of them
is actually pretty exciting.
I also want to give you many examples
because if we just talk in the abstract,
you're not going to get a
good feel for the language.
The best way to learn the
language is through examples.
So the examples I'm going to be
giving are from WebKit Safari.
There are some examples from the
Celestia application that you've seen.
There are some examples
from our developer examples.
So if you want to try some
of these when you get home,
you can go and look at the code that
in fact we'll be presenting here.
And lastly,
I want to talk about some gotchas.
It's a very complex language,
and there are a few gotchas.
I don't think they
affect too many people,
but it's still relevant in
the context of this talk.
And lastly,
I don't have this on the slide,
but I'd love to interact
with you folks for about 15,
20 minutes,
so I'm hoping I could zoom through
the presentation and customize it to
what you guys want to know afterwards.
So, to cut to the chase,
why isn't Cocoa written in C++?
We wouldn't be here talking
about the combined languages if,
in fact, Cocoa was written in C++.
And the simple answer is it
doesn't meet Coco's needs.
So before I explain why it
doesn't meet Coco's needs,
I'm going to try and go
through what are Coco's needs,
what are the language requirements,
what are the runtime requirements
that we have for Cocoa to set the
stage for understanding the language.
Number one: easy to learn.
Less is more.
We want to be able to teach
someone the language that
Coco's written in in a week,
max.
I think we're going to cover most
of the language here fairly well,
and I think you'll get a good feel
for Objective-C in a couple of hours,
roughly.
But we want people to focus on the API,
so we want to take the spotlight from the
language and move it to the frameworks.
That's one of the bigger reasons
we wanted it to be easy to learn.
We don't want you to focus or
struggle with the language.
We want to embrace existing code.
This has been part of the
mindset for many years.
That is, this isn't Java where we're
trying to basically give you a
clean new world that you have to
conform to in a homogeneous way.
We want you to be able to
bring over your C code,
your C++ code,
and leverage it in the context
of this very dynamic environment.
And lastly, and most importantly,
we want a dynamic object model.
The dynamic object model is what
enables many of the cool features
that you see in these presentations,
whether it be
Cocoa Bindings or Automator.
Many of these very cool features
are because we have dynamic
plumbing underneath the covers that
actually allows us to do some very,
very interesting things.
And if you don't write
frameworks for a living,
you don't sometimes think about it.
So if you're an application programmer,
I'm hoping that if you haven't
thought about some of these features,
we're going to put them in a
context that's going to make them
much more interesting to you.
So it's very important that we serve the
frameworks and the interactive tools.
What are the runtime requirements?
As most of you know, in the mid-80s,
we weren't dealing with machines
and memory models that were vast,
as vast as today.
For instance, Objective-C ran fairly well
on two-megabyte workstations.
And today, as you know,
most workstations ship
with 256 megabytes,
512, whatever, quite a bit more than
it was designed for.
So it's very clear that Objective-C,
having been born in that age,
scales nicely to today's machines.
It's very critical that when we ship new
features that we don't break your code.
Now, if you look at how many releases of
Cocoa we've made and lots of frameworks,
we've been very successful.
In fact, I think we're the only operating
system that I know of that is
fairly object-oriented and hasn't,
in fact,
broken people with some regularity.
So everything's shared,
and we try not to break people.
We have a C-based API, and this, again,
doesn't really affect you directly,
but indirectly.
That is,
we feel strongly that Objective-C has
to interact with other languages.
So, for instance, the first two up there:
Cocoa Java is a bridge
that Apple supports.
AppleScript Studio is another
product that allows you from
AppleScript to do Cocoa programming.
And then there's a whole bunch of
third-party scripting languages:
Python for Objective-C, Ruby, Cocoa,
Perl.
In fact, C# is being added to the list
of languages that are going to
be available to interact with
Cocoa and bind with Objective-C.
So, we're really excited
to see third parties,
in fact, integrate with this runtime,
which we consider fairly flexible.
So to wrap it up,
it's designed to serve the dynamic
frameworks and tools and enables you
to integrate your C code with Cocoa.
But what this talk is
about is Objective-C++,
which is the same exact design point.
It just enables you
to integrate C++ code.
So it's not as if the object
modules are there to compete.
They're there to work together.
So now let's get back to why
C++ doesn't meet Coco's needs.
It's a strongly-typed
static object model.
This is one of the properties that makes
it hard to evolve systems over time.
There's no runtime support for
dynamic loading or reflection.
Again, many features that we provide in
our tools would not be possible
with the standard C++ definition
as many of you use it today.
It is possible to expand the definition,
but we view C++ as a standard
language which we try not to extend.
And runtime model is fragile
and compiler-dependent.
This is a feature which
has hurt C++ significantly.
One of the reasons Java is
so popular today is because
it doesn't suffer from this.
Shared libraries are
critical for deploying code,
and it contributes to this
culture of code copying,
where if you can't share
something and not break it,
you want to own it.
You want to copy it in yourself so,
in fact, you won't break.
And, in fact,
if you have many applications using many
large frameworks and they're all copied,
you can imagine what the memory
footprint of your system would be like.
So, Objective-C++ design points.
Peaceful coexistence, right?
We want to use C++ as the base,
and the parser has been modified
to layer Objective-C atop C++.
One of the smartest
things I think we did was,
many years ago, was we implemented
Objective-C in the GNU compiler,
and that work happened in '88, roughly.
That work, along with the C++
work that was going on,
enabled us to marry them
with fairly low effort.
Both runtime systems are unchanged.
Okay, the native ABI, the semantics,
and the performance that you
expect from C++ is what you get.
It's not like we're changing
the way you do virtual function
dispatch or any other things in C++.
We are letting C++ have its own turf
and Objective-C have its own turf,
and we think that works very nicely.
Now, subclassing across object
models is not supported.
Aggregation, we think,
works great for this.
In the early days when we
used to present this language,
people got really freaked out by that.
They said, "God, you can't subclass?
Is it really useful if
you can't subclass?" Well,
I think what's happened over time is
people actually have learned through
many iterations of designing object
systems that inheritance is often not
the best tool for performing something.
So one of the things I'm
going to talk about is how,
in fact, Cocoa uses delegation,
composition, aggregation as programming
idioms and tools,
which, in fact, again,
make it a natural marriage because
we don't require subclassing
just by virtue of our dynamism.
So, subclassing isn't supported,
so why don't we unify the object models?
People sometimes ask,
who haven't carefully considered
some of the implications,
"Why don't we just change C++
to work like Objective-C?" Well,
there are systems that
have been tried over time.
SOM is one of them,
the system object model that
Apple and IBM worked on years ago,
and even COM to some extent by Microsoft,
that are actually systems designed
to try and fix some of the problems
with deploying C++ shared objects
and the static object model.
It turns out that because
they were unsuccessful,
we chose not to go that path,
rather marry Objective-C and
C++ as we've done.
So, let's go through the benefits.
It's portable.
It's amazing how even changing
initialization order of the order
in which constructors are run,
that that breaks some
of you guys out there.
I work in the tools team where
we're constantly looking at
easier ways to port your apps
and what headbutts you bump into,
and initialization order isn't
something that the standard dictates.
That is, it says each system can
do it however it wants.
Well, in fact, by the letter of the law,
we work just fine.
However, we, again,
break some of your code because we
don't do it in a specific way that,
let's say, was born on Windows or Linux.
So, again,
we want to make things portable,
and if initialization order is a problem,
if we change the way dispatch work,
believe me, we'd break all of you.
So, performance.
The performance of an
application is often dictated
by the way it does dispatch.
The fine-grain model,
coarse-grain model of
the object orientation.
And Objective-C is just
designed for more coarse-grain,
mid-grain dynamism and not the very
fine-grain stuff that people use C++ for.
So, it would be naive to think that
the same performance considerations
that we apply to a dynamic,
more coarse-grain object model
apply to a fine-grain one.
And thirdly, we want to be pragmatic.
Someone said to me outside the other
day how one of the beauties of coming
to this conference is that we're not
just trying to make things portable.
We're trying to make
things more practical.
And I think that's the key to the
success of coming to this conference
and seeing what Apple does and
seeing Steve's keynote is how we're
very good at finding the sweet spot.
And that's why we're able to
make releases on a yearly basis
and show you guys cool stuff is
because we find the sweet spot.
And I think Objective-C C++
is a good example of that.
It's pragmatic and it works.
So now let's go into the
code section of the talk.
Here is Hello World in four dialects.
You have the first header file, std::io.
You guys are all familiar with that.
There's iostream,
and then there's foundation.
So you can see the standard
printf::hello-world.
You can see the C++ version.
It's in all the C++ books.
Then there's a couple more statements
that give you the Objective-C version.
Now, that string constant,
for those of you who
haven't seen Objective-C,
a string constant preceded by an @
sign is a constant string object.
The compiler is responsible
for creating it,
and you can see it's initialized there.
And then there's the combination of them,
which is pretty seamless.
So you have standard out taking
as output the C string coming from
the Objective-C string object,
and then outputting the ++.
So you can see that that's
fairly easy to program.
So here's just how you compile it,
just to show you that the file,
the suffix is .mm.
We don't have to get into the
details of why it's called .mm,
but it contains the mixed languages,
and it's linking against
the standard C++ library,
which is a static library,
not a shared library,
and it's linking against the frameworks,
the foundation framework.
So pretty easy stuff.
Now, again, one detail.
Right now we're shipping the
standard C++ library as what
we call an archive library,
a non-shared library.
So if you look at that executable,
it's actually fairly big.
It contains the whole standard C++
library contained within the Hello world.
In a future release,
we're going to be releasing
a shared version of that.
Now I want to go through
some just syntactic idioms,
and I also want to go
through some terminology.
Here's what a class looks like,
at interface.
So let's get the at stuff out of the way.
Why do we use at?
The reason we prefix our keywords with at
is we didn't want to break existing code.
It's that simple.
You know, some people get freaked
out by the at sign,
but that is the reason.
It's we don't want to break code,
because code contains interface.
Code contains end.
And code contains other keywords
that we wanted to publish.
So that's why we use at.
And it's a single inheritance model.
So right there, the class is my class.
The superclass is NSObject.
For purposes of this discussion,
Objective-C is single-rooted.
It turns out that you can
provide your own root class,
but that's something for an advanced
session that is a topic for another day.
Oh, just briefly.
Instance version.
The term instance variable is a
small talk jargon or terminology.
In C++, if, in fact,
some of you have just programmed in C++,
you would know that as data members,
right?
So members, data members,
instance variables map
into the same concept.
So here we have a C type, an int,
named X.
We have an NSView named Y.
And we have an Iostream named S.
So you can see we have three
different declarations here.
That all contain different types.
Here are some methods.
There are instance methods, and again,
the term "method" comes from small talk.
Instance method, class method.
In C++, this would be member functions,
and -- well, non-static member functions
and member functions.
And here we have a set-target
method and a set-action method.
Now, notice the colons.
The colons would separate the
key -- what's called the keyword
argument from the actual type
and the name of the argument.
If you leave out the type in Objective-C,
it means it's an ID.
We'll get into what
ID means in a little while.
So here we have a set-cell class.
That's actually a class object.
We'll get into that as well later.
And selectors.
Selectors are a unique name for a method.
Okay,
so they're like pointers to functions,
except they represent the name,
and they're unique per process.
And we'll talk a little
bit later about that.
So, so far we have a class interface,
we have instance variables,
we have methods.
Here's an abstract type declaration.
Objective-C decided to formalize the
notion of abstract types years ago,
and it's been something that's
worked really well for us.
So an abstract type is a type where you
don't specify the instance variables,
you don't specify the superclass,
you just specify what the operations
that are expected of the type are.
So here's the NSDraggingInfo protocol.
This is a set of methods which
will all be given to the AppKit,
and they will delegate to your object.
Here's an abstract type implementation.
So you can see NSString.
It inherits from NSObject,
and it conforms to three protocols.
So here's an example where
Objective-C has single
inheritance of implementation,
but multiple inheritance of interface,
which is a very common metaphor
that we use in Cocoa and
that works very well for us.
So here, again,
we have three different interfaces or
protocols and a couple methods there.
So here is three different
object declarations.
In C++, you've probably never
seen anything like ID.
It's an object-oriented void star,
pretty much.
And it says, "Here is any object." Now,
the difference is that object
has metadata associated with it.
So in fact, it's not as bad as a void
star in that a void star,
you know nothing about it except
by looking at the source code.
At runtime, you could actually infer
what the type of object is.
Now, the second statement declaration
there is an NSBrowser*.
In Objective-C, when you type an object,
that's there just for documentation.
Okay?
It tells the reader that
that--any browser is an NSBrowser.
It doesn't affect how the
compiler will do binding.
So dynamic dispatch,
all the dynamic properties still
apply even though it's been typed.
And the third declaration there says,
"I have any object that conforms to the
ns-dragging-info protocol," which is
what I just showed in the previous slide.
So that means any class that can
conform to that protocol will
be accepted by the compiler.
What's really neat about this, again,
is you don't have to know
what type of object it is.
Now, you could even provide a list there.
It's fairly uncommon,
but just as you had a list within
the class declaration context,
you could have a list here as well.
Another point, as contrast to Java,
is Java integrates the abstract type
namespace in with the class namespace.
In Objective-C, they're separate.
So you could have an NSObject
class and an NSObject protocol
and so on and so forth.
So they're in separate namespaces.
Here we're going to go
through message expressions.
This is what you see the most of when
you look at an Objective-C program.
Here's the most simple one.
We have my view, which is an object,
and it's sending the
timer update message.
There's no arguments there.
The second message expression
there is any browser sent the
set delegate object message.
That takes one argument.
Notice the colon separates the
name from the actual argument,
in this case obj.
The third one, a common idiom,
is where the receiver is
derived from a message.
Here self is,
I think the first time we've seen self,
self is equivalent to this in C++,
and it's sending the
flush window message.
So now let's look at some
hybrid message expressions.
This first one is out of WebCore.
It's sending the message keyboard UI.
And you can see that it's
accessing a static member function,
bridge for widget.
And in this case, this is active.
So this is just a message expression
I pulled out of WebCore to show
you how easy it is to mix the two
languages in message expressions.
The second one is a bit more complicated.
There we have the adapter sending the set
cookies for URL policy-based URL message,
and you can see it's interspersed
with arguments that are,
in fact, member function calls.
So fairly easy stuff.
Again,
a message expression is an expression.
So just as you call in a function
and you could provide expressions
to each argument of the function,
the same thing's true here.
That's why the nesting works so nicely.
There's nothing special about it.
There we go.
So here are some more hybrid
message expressions from Celestia.
Here we have
We're sending the star message to self.
We're then dereferencing it,
calling the setLuminosity
member function.
And we're passing it the float value
from an Objective-C message expression.
Again, you could see how natural
the given play is.
There's nothing really magic going on.
And you could really
see the two languages
is collaborating and
working well together here.
So the second one, we have NSNumber,
and you can see the self star,
and it's sending the getTemperature
member function call.
And the third one,
we have simply a namespace named Astro,
and there's just a standard C++ function
that's embedded within the namespace
Astro called lightYearsToParsecs,
and it's being passed the float value.
Okay.
Next thing I'd like to talk
about is some dynamic idioms.
Okay.
Method categories are something
we use pretty extensively
in the application kit.
It allows us to augment existing classes.
It's something you don't
see very commonly in other
object-oriented languages.
If you look at Common Lisp or you look
at some other more dynamic languages,
they're not called categories,
but they allow you to do the same thing.
What they allow you to do is add
operations to an existing class.
So here's an example where on the
app kit is adding some string drawing
methods to the foundation string object.
Likewise,
here's an Objective-C++ category that
Celestia adds to convert NSStrings to
and from the standard strings.
So I want to show you
briefly how it works,
because I think many people who
are new to some of the dynamic
properties that Objective-C has,
they get confused.
So here are our three bodies of code.
We have the foundation,
where NSString lives.
We have AppKit with a
category that you just saw.
We have Celestia with that
category with the two methods.
What happens is, at runtime,
the runtime links things up.
And actually,
when it loads the shared library,
it says, oh, a category.
Who are you associated with?
And then it goes and looks
up the class dynamically,
and it sets the method tables accordingly
so that you can basically extend the
class methods in a fairly seamless way.
Here you see the NSString method
table points to the string
drawing method table,
which points to-- so
anything in the AppKit,
all your applications get for free.
If you want to have a private category,
as Celestia does,
that's a category that would
be embodied with the actual
executable for the application.
That would obviously not be
shared with other executables.
And what this allows is you to
associate methods with other
objects that work on their behalf.
So for instance, these method tables
aren't a part of NSView.
They're not a part of
the Celestial Galaxy.
But they're methods that the
Galaxy and the View would like to
call on behalf of the string object.
So why is all this interesting?
It's because you don't have control of
who instantiates objects all the time,
right?
One of the things that frameworks are
really good at is doing work on your
behalf where you actually don't know what
class is going to be sent the message.
So we think this works really well,
and in fact,
people have used it in very interesting
ways in various applications.
So another dynamic idiom,
we have the setCellClass method.
Basically, classes are first-class
objects in Objective-C.
You can reason about them.
If you dynamically load code,
you can find out what classes are a part
of that code and invoke methods on them.
setCellClass,
you could reason about the superclass.
These are all small talk idioms that
we carried over into Objective-C.
And the is kind of
predicate to basically ask,
is this class a kind of another class?
Now, notice the function there.
The function allows you to take a
string and convert it into an object.
OK?
That's another metaphor
we use quite heavily,
because the compiler can't always
know or be told what class.
Often, it's reading those things
from external files,
like your NIV file.
So here are methods of
first-class objects as well.
Here's a selector, the unique code.
So if you want to compare selectors,
you need to convert them.
If you want to get a method signature,
you need a selector.
So in this case,
it's already been converted.
We send that message.
Signatures contain the type.
So if you're writing a tool or you're
writing a framework and you want to
know what types the method takes,
the signature is really handy.
And here's an @Selector directive.
@Selector is the equivalent
of the function in this slide.
The only difference is you're
telling the compiler to do it,
so it's a little more optimal
because you know the name.
In this case, it's alloc,
so the compiler will get the
unique code for the alloc method.
Delegation.
Okay, this is something that
we use in notifications.
We use it in the target action
paradigm in the application kit.
We do things like, "Oh,
if your object responds to this selector,
well, send the windowDidMove message."
The windowDidMove message is part
of a protocol that we publish
for tracking window operations.
And this is a perfect example of
code that you don't often write,
but is written all the
time in the framework to
collaborate with your objects.
So, again,
it's an interesting case where,
until you see some of these
idioms and metaphors and patterns,
you don't appreciate them.
And, again, this is one of the reasons
when you write Cocoa programs,
you don't find you're
overwhelmed with subclassing,
writing lots of different classes, and,
in fact, ending up with some very
highly structured or overly
structured class hierarchy.
It's fairly free-informed.
It's more free-flowing.
So here's set target, set action.
This is code from the
interface builder paradigm,
and this is in all of our controls.
And then later on,
once you have the target and the action,
you can send the set
action method accordingly.
So this is the dynamic code that we
find all over our frameworks that,
again, simplifies your life.
Reflection.
This is the hooks that support outlets,
bindings, key-value coding, again,
Cocoa bindings,
which have been featured in
many of the presentations.
This is the low-level code that, in fact,
supports those metaphors.
So in this case,
we have selector from string.
It gets the selector,
and then it asks response to.
If it does respond to it,
it performs the selector.
If no setter method has been found,
a lower-level hook is provided to,
in fact,
look up the instance variable and
set it directly in the object.
So the simplification for
the programmer is you don't
have to write setter methods.
The introspection,
reflection that's provided with
the runtime enables the tools
to basically poke at your object
and set up the connection,
set up the binding
without your intervention.
It's nice to have the
opportunity to write the setter,
but that's not required.
So let's see,
how are we doing on time here?
So here are some examples.
From OpenGL,
this is on the developer disk.
Here's an example of a more
complete set of code where we
have a value object that's a
Q matrix there that's highlighted.
And it's surrounded by an outlet
right there from interface builder,
mode, alpha.
Again, this is on your disk.
Now, just because you're
writing in Objective-C++,
don't assume that all the
classes have to be mixed.
Right?
Here's an example where,
even though we saw some hybrid
code in the previous slide,
this class is pure C++.
There's not any Objective-C in it.
So a very,
very common thing we see out there
is people keeping a lot of their C++,
let's say, portable and standard and not
mixing the models everywhere,
but in fact just doing it in
very special control points.
Right?
It's very common to want to do
a native interface in Cocoa and
bring over your C++ engine,
so to speak.
And in fact, iChat's a good example.
iChat is a wonderful Cocoa interface
that the chat engine is actually in C++,
and they work together via Objective-C++.
So here is just an
example rotating the cube.
You can see the one statement there that
does the multiplication and then the
extra Objective-C statements there to
do the graphics and update the scene.
Fairly straightforward stuff.
Now, here's an interesting one.
There was a class in this
example that was largely C++,
but there's a couple pure
member functions there that
were taking Objective-C objects,
selectors, and, in fact, events.
So I've highlighted them for you.
And you could see that these
arguments are passed around as
naturally as other arguments would be.
So here's the handle event method.
So you could see that it
checks the event type,
checks if it's a scroll wheel,
and does the appropriate operations.
Again, very, very straightforward.
Okay, so let's go to the next example,
which is Core Audio.
This is a little bit more complicated.
This example,
what's in orange are the C++ objects,
and what's in blue are
the Objective-C objects.
So here we have a few vectors and
a map that are C++ vectors and map
from the standard C++ library that
point off to Objective-C objects.
So they're C++ containers that
Here's the allocation method.
So you can see that there's
a couple Objective-C objects
being allocated and initialized
with the application delegate.
And then there are several news,
which are the vectors being instantiated.
This is a good time to
note that in Objective-C,
all objects are dynamically allocated,
okay, or by reference.
The only special object is NSString,
which the compiler knows about.
So it knows how to create
static string constants.
But all other Objective-C objects that
you create are dynamically allocated.
In C++,
it's very common to use value objects,
and we're going to talk a little
bit more about that in a bit.
But here,
it so happens that the new is being used,
and they're dynamic as well.
So all the objects in
this method are dynamic.
So here's a simple little method that
basically sends the pushback call.
[Transcript missing]
So we just looked at C++
containers of Cocoa objects.
I was alluding to the gotcha,
which is it's a little bit
sticky right now mixing the
retain-release metaphor with C++.
When the vector classes were developed,
they obviously didn't
know about Objective-C,
right?
So it's hard to expect them
to know how to do this.
And again, as I said before,
both runtimes, both libraries don't
know about each other.
Fortunately,
C++ provides some interesting hooks
to be able to solve this problem.
I don't know if you were
able to read the comments,
but basically what's happening here
is it's considered a no-no in Cocoa to
transfer ownership across calls.
So what I expected to-- when
I was reading this method,
I was expecting to see
a release at the end.
But it doesn't do a release.
It passes the object on.
And for purposes of this talk,
if you're not familiar
with retain-release,
this is probably more
than you need to know.
But here, there's a manual release.
So you saw that.
And it's just confusing.
And I've talked to people
who use the language,
and they want to see this fixed.
So one of the things that we're going
to be doing is adding a smart pointer
class to automate the retain-release.
So for any of you who've tried to do
this and have been confused by it,
fortunately,
C++ provides templates which allow you
to customize the behavior of the vector.
So for instance,
by providing an ID pointer template,
it allows us to solve this problem and
write that code much more naturally
and in a much less error-prone fashion.
So this is a feature that we
expect to provide for Tiger.
If not, it's actually fairly easy for
you to implement this yourself.
And it's not going to be a
problem for you to do it yourself,
if you need to do so in the short term.
As I say in the slide,
Boost Shared Pointer might even
work for you off the shelf.
If it doesn't,
then you could adapt it to your needs.
The next "gotcha" is exception handling.
Exception handling
is supported in both languages.
In C++, it's try-catch.
In Objective-C, it's at-try, at-catch.
But one of the confusing things here
is if you look at these two calls here,
one is sending the process message,
and the other is timer update.
You don't know whether
these two calls are truly,
like the first one, you don't know,
is it C++ pure or is it hybrid, right?
The second one, you don't know,
is this pure Objective-C message send?
That is the method on the other end.
Is it pure Objective-C or not, right?
If you know that,
then life's a little bit simpler.
You can just wrap your C++
call with the try-catch and
wrap your Objective-C message
send with that try-catch.
Unfortunately, in this case,
they're hybrid,
which is why I used it as an example.
So to solve this problem,
it's straightforward,
maybe initially non-obvious,
but you basically wrap the
first two calls in try-catch,
and that's the C++ catch right there,
and then you would wrap
with that try-catch,
okay?
Now, fortunately, the way exceptions are
used in Cocoa and C++,
they're really used for
exceptional conditions as errors,
right?
So you don't find yourself having to
write this type of code very often.
Usually in Cocoa, in particular,
you inherit an exception
handler from NSApplication,
and even if you decide to implement
your own exception handling,
you usually do it at a very
high level of the application.
Again, it's not handled for
things like file not found.
So what I just talked about
was sort of education.
It isn't really a big gotcha.
It's just something that
you have to think about,
more of a speed bump.
This is a gotcha.
This init method does something very bad.
Basically, there's a value stack object
that I've declared here.
And as the comment says,
the destructor for stack object
will not be called automatically
when that at throw happens.
The reason for this, unfortunately,
is related to the fact that we're trying
very hard to be binary compatible.
So that when we added at try,
at catch last year,
we actually used set jump and long jump,
which is what we had been using in Cocoa.
And set jump and long jump do
not know about the C++ runtime.
So in fact, this is a gotcha by design,
unfortunately.
So what's the workaround?
The workaround, fortunately,
is pretty straightforward.
The workaround is fairly simple.
All you do is call the
destructor manually.
Not the prettiest thing,
but C++ allows you to do that,
and it's possible.
Again,
hopefully you won't be dealing with this.
This is more a matter of completeness
and me being entirely upfront on
some of the little things that exist.
Again, I don't think this really will
affect your life day to day.
Errors and warnings.
This is probably the biggest gotcha
that I hear complaints about,
and it's because in C++,
value objects are extremely common.
And if you want to have a value
object or an embedded object that's
part of an Objective-C object,
you get some really bad errors and
warnings that basically tell you crazy
things like the Vtable has virtual
member functions and all kinds of crazy
stuff that just doesn't make sense.
And it's because, again,
the object runtimes,
the two object runtimes,
don't collaborate when
dealing with this construct,
mainly because at the time,
we couldn't figure out how do we
maintain the design point of keeping the
runtimes distinct and solve this problem.
We had incorrectly assumed
that it was impossible.
Fortunately,
we've figured out how to do it,
and we'll be providing
it in a future release.
For now, there's a workaround.
Right now,
if you declare them reference and
you instantiate them directly,
it won't cause you any grief.
Again,
because new will do the correct thing.
And as I said,
this limitation is going to be removed
and it'll just work as expected.
So there are several people
anxiously waiting for this one,
I know, and hopefully it'll
make their lives easier.
So I don't know if I went too fast here.
We're going to fortunately
have some nice about 20,
25 minutes left for Q&A,
which I really value.
And given the number of people here,
I'm sure there's plenty of
questions to ask about this.
But here are some take-home points.
I think it's fairly clear that doing
this stuff is fairly straightforward.
The learning curve,
if you're already a C++ programmer,
is very low.
Now, if you're not a C++ programmer and
you're not an Objective-C programmer,
this isn't the language for you, right?
This is-- this-- you know, yeah, so.
Apple is using this extensively in
almost every part of the company,
whether it be our iApps, ProApps, iChat,
Safari,
and many third-party apps I've seen,
and many that aren't public.
They're using this extensively,
and it's proven itself.
So I feel really confident in
advising you guys to use this,
because I think it's
going to save you time.
And I think it's also going
to expose people from the C++
language culture to new metaphors,
new ways of building systems that
I think will also benefit you.
I think both languages
complement each other.
I am constantly amazed at how they
really don't get in each other's way.
This wasn't clear when we did it many,
many years ago.
And, in fact, we were concerned about
creating a monster.
And I don't think we've done so.
I think this is a very expressive tool.
And I think if C++ would
have become the next C,
which is what I thought 15 years
ago when C++ was being developed,
I was fairly convinced that it was
going to be the next iteration of C,
then this would seem even more natural.
I think the only reason that
it even seems to be a little
controversial is because C++
didn't become formally the next C,
even though it's the de
facto next iteration of C.
And I find most people doing
serious applications of C++.
And I think that's the reason why people
who are doing this kind of application
development are using it in some way.
So documentation.
And Matt Formica,
he's our tools evangelist.